Marwencol reviews
Strange and ultimately mystifying documentary
Like IN THE REALMS OF THE UNREAL, this documentary explores an "outsider artist" who shares his life between reality and a fantasy world of his own construction. Mark Hogancamp's miniature WWII town of "Marwencol" is far less bizarre than Darger's creation, but serves as a reflection of his frustrations, desires, and imagination. It truly is "art as therapy". Director Jeff Malmberg takes a decidedly unflashy approach to the material, mostly just allowing Hogancamp and his associates to speak for themselves. This is really for the best, as Mark is an instantly likable person, not charming so much as open and relatable. The film's revelations are not presented as earth-shattering shockers, but simply facets of a complete person with his own quiet quirks and nagging demons. An understated but fascinating and often inspirational movie about the artist (who didn't know he was one) and the value of art.

Deeply Moving Film
Deeply moving documentary about a man, Mark Hogancamp, who suffered a vicious beating at the hands of some thugs who followed him home from a bar. He suffered some pretty horrible brain damage, losing most of his memories. To deal with the pain, Mark created a fantasy world, a small Belgian town in the midst of WWII, Marwencol, populated with dolls which represent people from his own life. The filmmaking is pretty standard doc stuff, but it's well done and the director handles the big reveals fantastically. Hogancamp is such a wonderfully interesting person - and the stories he tells about Marwencol are actually gripping themselves - that I was completely caught up in the movie. It's easily one of last year's best films. 

Sad but Rewarding
Marwencol is an excellent documentary which tells the story of Mark Hogancamp, who was assaulted by five men outside of a bar and left severely brain damaged after nine days in a coma. He had no memory of his former life.

As a form of therapy, Mark slowly builds a 1/6 scale Belgian World War II era town he names after real people; Mark, Wendy and Colleen. He uses dolls to represent himself and his friends and gives them story lines. He eventually photographs his work and after publication in a magazine, his work is discovered by a New York art gallery; this is a simply amazing story.

Mark has somehow survived against all odds and Marwencol will almost restore your faith in humanity.
---------------
Rape of Europa
Giving Documentaries a Good Name
I have just returned from this film and am another satisfied customer. It always feels a bit strange going to the cinema to see a documentary, but docs always turn out to be so much better and more fulfilling than the blockbusters. A real whirlwind of emotions, the Rape of Europa is something in which everyone living in the western world has a stake. The destructive force of war on human beings and those things which are crucial to our humanity, our art, is put into a perspective that is about as balanced as we can hope to get. Many positive things I would say have already been said, so I will offer one criticism: the city of Dresden, once called the "Florence on the Elbe," was not mentioned in the film. As perhaps the worst bombed city of the war, and a city which had no military value whatsoever but was of incalculable worth culturally, I felt this was a major omission. Of course, the film covered an amazing amount of ground, and the Dresden bombing remains a touchy subject for many, so I can comprehend the constraints of time and the need to avoid charged tangents. However, as someone who has lived in that city (many parts of which remained ruins until only recently), I still would have liked to have heard it mentioned. That said, the film was wonderful on a whole. If only everything they showed in the cinemas were half as good. 

A very powerful documentary that shows how the movie theater is a social force
As everyone in America retreats to their suburban mansions and the computer screens, it is a great experience to go out to the movies and see a film of real social import. If you love history and art, like I do, you certainly do not want to miss this film. The brutal effects of Nazi destruction never goes away, it keeps on coming, like a nightmare from the 20th century that we are all dreaming about. This film demonstrates the innate power of art. It shows, through a deep examination of the looting of Europe's treasures, what these works really meant to the countries who had them. And it reveals the utterly strange connection between the life of Hitler, failed art student, and the hellish destruction he unleashed on the world. In this season of filmic dreck at the mall, this strong documentary is definitely worth seeking out. 
-------------------
who the is jackson Pollack
Interesting personal story & look at the "Art" world
This documentary tells the story of Teri Horton's crusade to get her $5 garage sale find certified as a genuine Jackson Pollock painting. I found myself really enjoying her feisty, earthy spirit, and contrasting it with the attitude of the "Art" world, which has been so dismissive of her claim, because it comes from outside their commonly held standards and beliefs. The contrast between her truck drivin', swearin', fried chicken & beer, trailer park life and the rarified "art world" people she was dealing with is both striking and funny. I must confess that, along with Teri, I knew very little about Jackson Pollock. Seeing this movie has impelled me to find out more about his interesting life. 

Definitely worth watching
This film is entertaining in many ways. The people in the film cover a pretty broad range, but I think it's safe to say that most of them are quirky. Quirky in a good way, though. The story was interesting as well as the whys and hows that originated the story. Without giving too much away, let's just say that the filmmaker does a good job. The story has the ever-popular David v Goliath, Individual v Large Corporate Mentality, and Common Man v The Elite that pretty much anyone can enjoy.

Knowledge of art and artists isn't necessary, and it isn't necessary for you to know the intricacies of the art world. It's all laid out for you in the film. You don't even have to be interested in art to enjoy the movie; you just have to be interested in watching a good story and letting the real-life personalities lead the way. 

Good and bad
This was very entertaining and quite a story. However, many of the documentary's claims about the artworld are unfounded. They interview a small handful of slightly and some totally ego-centric people and label them as "the art world". In fact, most of the art world would love for this story to be true, that a truck driver has miraculously discovered a Jackson Pollack in perfect condition that found its way to a yard sale the whole United states away from where it was originally painted. The documentary neglects to focus on many overwhelming amount of evidence that call the piece a fraud and instead focus on the few details tat suggest its authenticity. This in effect portrays a sense of drama that is unreal. Good film though! 
--------------------
The Jazz Loft According to W. Eugene Smith
2016 1hr 27min
Director: Sara Fishko
Writer: Sara Fishko
Stars: David Amram, Carla Bley, John Cohen

Art, obsession and anxiety permeate a dilapidated Manhattan loft building in Mid-century: The first movie to use photographer W. Eugene Smith's massive, fly-on-the-wall archive of photos and audio tapes documenting the likes of jazz greats Thelonious Monk, Zoot Sims, Jimmy Giuffre, Hall Overton and others at work and play in the Sixth Avenue wreck that was Smith's home and studio from 1957 through the '60s. 



 
