Rape of Europa 
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0997088/

2006 1hr 57min
Directors: Richard Berge, Bonni Cohen 
Writers: Richard Berge, Bonni Cohen 
Stars: Joan Allen, E. Randol Schoenberg, Maria Altmann 

THE RAPE OF EUROPA takes the audience on a journey through seven countries telling a story of greed and warfare that threatened the artistic heritage of Europe. For twelve years, the Nazis looted and destroyed art. Young art historians and curators from America and across Europe fought back, mounting a campaign to rescue and return countless art works displaced by the war. Joan Allen narrates this chronicle about the battle over centuries of western culture.

- Written by Actual Films 
--------------------
Marwincol
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1391092/
 
2010 1hr 23min
Director: Jeff Malmberg
Stars: Mark Hogancamp, Emmanuel Nneji, Edda Hogancamp


"Marwencol" is a documentary about the fantasy world of Mark Hogancamp. After being beaten into a brain-damaging coma by five men outside a bar, Mark builds a 1/6th scale World War II-era town in his backyard. Mark populates the town he dubs "Marwencol" with dolls representing his friends and family and creates life-like photographs detailing the town's many relationships and dramas. Playing in the town and photographing the action helps Mark to recover his hand-eye coordination and deal with the psychic wounds of the attack. When Mark and his photographs are discovered, a prestigious New York gallery sets up an art show. Suddenly Mark's homemade therapy is deemed "art", forcing him to choose between the safety of his fantasy life in Marwencol and the real world that he's avoided since the attack. 

Written by Anonymous
-------------------------------
W. Eugene Smith: Photography Made Difficult 
https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/w_eugene_smith_photography_made_difficult/

1989 1hr 27min
Director: Gene Lasko
Writer: Jan Hartman
Star: Peter Riegert 

The war in the South Pacific, a country doctor in Colorado, victims of industrial pollution in a Japanese village--all were captured in unforgettable photographs by the legendary W. Eugene Smith. This program showcases over 600 of Smith's stunning photographs and includes a dramatic recreation in which actor Peter Riegert (Crossing Delancey, Local Hero) portrays the artist using dialogue taken from Smith's diaries and letters. Interwoven through the program are archival footage and interviews with family and friends of this brilliant, complicated man, whose work developed from twin themes of common humanity and social responsibility. 
------------------
Who the #$&% Is Jackson Pollock? 
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0487092/

2006  1hr 14min
Director: Harry Moses
Writer (WGA): Harry Moses 

Who the #$&% Is Jackson Pollock? is a documentary following a woman named Teri Horton, a 73-year-old former long-haul truck driver from California, who purchased a painting from a thrift shop for $5, only later to find out that it may be a Jackson Pollock painting; she had no clue at the time who Jackson Pollock was, hence the name of the film. The film depicts Horton's attempts to authenticate and sell the painting as an original work by Pollock.

Adapted from Wikipedia
-------------------------------
Joan Mitchell: Portrait of an Abstract Painter
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0188720/

1993 58Min
Director: Marion Cajori
Star: Joan Mitchell 

A powerful and intimate portrait, JOAN MITCHELL: PORTRAIT OF AN ABSTRACT PAINTER captures Mitchell's independent spirit and testifies eloquently to Mitchell's art. One of the great abstract painters of the 20th century, Mitchell was an active participant of New York's dynamic Abstract Expressionist scene and hung out with fellow painters Franz Kline, Willem de Kooning and Philip Guston, as well as poets Frank O'Hara, James Schuyler and John Ashbery. In the mid-fifties, she moved to Paris, where she was part of a circle of friends that included Pierre Matisse, Samuel Beckett and Alberto Giacometti. This elegantly edited documentary weaves together interviews with the acerbic Mitchell and other leading painters and critics, while letting her stunning pictures dominate the film. Stephen Holden of the New York Times says, "The canvases have grand chaotic romanticism. While celebrating the physical universe with an ecstatic love of color, they don't shy away from expressing a harsh, feral ... Written by Anonymous

--------------------------
Richard Avedon: Darkness and Light
http://www.pbs.org/wnet/americanmasters/richard-avedon-about-the-photographer/467/

1996 1hr 30min
Director: Helen Whitney
Writer: Helen Whitney
Stars: Richard Avedon, John Lahr, Mike Nichols 

This documentary on the life and work of renowned photographer Richard Avedon comes to DVD with a standard full-frame transfer. The English soundtrack is rendered in Dolby Digital Stereo. There are neither subtitles nor closed-captions on this release. There are no supplemental materials of any consequence, but those with an interest in the man or in photography should find this Wellspring title worthwhile.

From Barnes and Noble site
-------------------------------
The Gates: A Film about The Gates in Central Park, New York  
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0446089/

2007 1hr 38min
Jeanne-Claude (Actor), Mayor Bloomberg (Actor), Brad Minnich (Director) 

In this documentary, Christo and Jeanne-Claude created a masterpiece - a piece of art that not only inspired the mind, but touched the soul. For 16 days in February 2005, over 7,500 gates covered 23 mile of Central Park walkways. Christo, Jeanne-Claude, Mayor Bloomberg and native New Yorkers present the Gates as never seen before. Follow the temporary life of the Gates through inception, installation, enjoyment, and disassembly. 
from amazon
------------------
Magical Universe  
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2266781/

2013 1hr 20min
Director: Jeremy Workman
Cast: Jeremy Workman, Al Carbee, Astrid vonUssar

Filmed for over a decade, MAGICAL UNIVERSE is a portrait of Al Carbee, an 88 year old strange and reclusive outsider artist who spends his days alone in a massive house in Maine creating art -- mostly featuring Barbie Dolls in elaborate dioramas. The documentary profiles Carbee's amazing body of work and his relentlessly creative lifestyle. Carbee's story is explored through the prism of his unlikely friendship with New York filmmaker Jeremy Workman, who unexpectedly becomes Carbee's closest friend and only link to the outside world. Far beyond just a portrait of an eccentric, MAGICAL UNIVERSE is about wonder, friendship, and the transcendent power of creativity. Its story culminates with Al Carbee's greatest triumph as an artist and a man.
from Sundance
-----------------------



